Posit conf 2023 summary (#235)
rladies/rladies.github.io: content/news/2023-10-01-r-ladies-global-and-r-ladies-chicago-reception-at-posit-conf/index.en.md

---
title: R-Ladies Global and R-Ladies Chicago Reception at Posit Conf
author: "Global Leadership Team"
date: '2023-10-01'
tags: 
- community
categories:
- r-ladies

> output: html_document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

![](posit-conf.jpg)

Photo captured at the conclusion of the Question and Answer session of the reception. Alt text: R-Ladies community members gathered in a room of the Hyatt in Chicago, with rows of individuals standing, kneeling, and sitting.

# TL;DR

On Wednesday, September 20, 2023 R-Ladies Global and R-Ladies Chicago
jointly hosted a reception at Posit Conf in Chicago, Illinois. Here, we
summarize the question and answer portion of the meet-up.

# Overview

Per tradition, at the conclusion of Posit Conf R-Ladies Global and
R-Ladies Chicago (the local R-Ladies chapter) jointly hosted a reception
at the conference hotel in Chicago, Illinois. In attendance were all

> members of the R-Ladies leadership team, R-Ladies global team members,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
members of the R-Ladies leadership team, several R-Ladies global team members,
```

> chapter organizers, regular participants, and first time R-Ladies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chapter organizers from around the world, regular participants, and first time R-Ladies
```

> meet-up attendees. The in-person, not recorded event was open to both

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meet-up attendees. The in-person, unrecorded, event was open to both
```

> conference attendees and local chapter members and adhered to R-Ladies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
conference attendees and local chapter members, and adhered to R-Ladies
```

The reception began with announcements from the leadership team followed
by a question and answer panel discussion with questions submitted via
slido. The panel included Athanasia Mowinckel, Yanina Bellini Saibene,
and Riva Quiroga from the leadership team as well as R-Ladies chapter
organizers María Nanton (R-Ladies Buenos Aires), Stephanie Orellana
(R-Ladies Santiago) and Angela Li (R-Ladies Chicago). Thank you to all
of our panelists for sharing their insights and experiences.

The question and answers below are not presented as they were discussed
chronologically, but more thematically in terms of discussion versus
operational/procedural questions.

# Discussion questions

## What are the main benefits of R-Ladies?

*Angela:* Improving my data science skills in a community that was
really supportive, which then quickly cascaded into talking to people in
different sectors doing different things that you didn't yet know.
Angela and Ola are stepping down as R-Ladies Chicago organizers, and
would be amazing to give those benefits to someone else to make
connections and build their careers.

*Maria:* A space where you can grow in a supportive environment.

> Professionally, I wouldn't have the job that I have right now without of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Professionally, I wouldn't have the job that I have right now without
```

> R-ladies. It has been a hugely positive experience, and it has been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
R-Ladies. It has been a hugely positive experience, and it has been
```

amazing to give back as an organizer.

> *Stephanie:* R-ladies changed my life, I am a super introvert and felt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Stephanie:* R-Ladies changed my life, I am a super introvert and felt
```

comfortable here; I have learned a lot and I made really good friends. I
also like that it is an international community. I didn't have
international friends before this and now I have friends in other

> R-ladies in Spanish and they ask me to share my knowledge with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
R-Ladies in Spanish and they ask me to share my knowledge with them.
```

> *Riva:* It is a great community to be an introvert in; R-ladies also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Riva:* It is a great community to be an introvert in; R-Ladies also
```

changed my life. You have fun, you learn, and it helps with imposter
syndrome. I don't have words to express how it changed my life.

*Mo:* It is changing individual lives, but it is also changing an entire
community. We are at tech conference and there are so many women here -
this of course has to do with the R community that we are in and this R
community is influenced that R-Ladies is breaking stereotypes and making

> spaces for all of us. That has been a huge success for us (Py-Ladies was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
spaces for all of us. That has been a huge success for us,
```

> actually first but R-Ladies started shortly after and exploded and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as interest for R-Ladies chapters quickly developed  and
```

> became popular very fast). The organization has made space for all of us

Reviewer: ```suggestion
became popular very fast. The organization has made space for all of us
```

in data science fields. It benefits us and the entire community. There

> are amazing initiatives going on as well. R-Ladies is being translated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are amazing initiatives going on as well. By establishing the idea of creating more diversity
in gender representation in our community (here: the larger R-community), other aspects of
diversity have become more highlighted also. The efforts on translation of content and even R
it self, R-Ladies, is one of these.
```

> to different languages, R-Ladies in Latin American is making a huge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
R-Ladies in Latin American is making a huge
```

impact on a larger scale and all the personal stories are fantastic to
listen to.

## Will R-Ladies ever re-brand to a name that is more inclusive to R users of marginalized genders?

*Yani:* Yes. As of now our plan is to open a discussion within the
R-Ladies community where members can comment anonymously and individuals
from the community outside the leadership/global team will join the
discussion. We hope this allows people to feel free to openly share
their opinion. We plan to have guidelines and rules written ahead of
time to help guide the discussion. The results of that discussion will
help guide the decision of the leadership team, and then it will be
announced to the broader community. The idea is to have the current, and
future potential, members of R-Ladies have a voice heard in this
decision.

## Any thoughts about age diversity and creating more inclusive accessible meetups?

*Mo:* We provide our organizers a lot of freedom to set up meet-ups in a

> way that make them accessible. When Oslo started, we had a ton of age

Reviewer: ```suggestion
way that make them accessible. When Oslo started, we had good age
```

> diversity and associate professors retiring and it was nice to see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
diversit, from studens, profesionnals and retiring professors, it was nice to see
```

> everyone connecting; however, it can be hard reaching other people, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
everyone connecting. However, it can be hard reaching other people, and
```

there are things we can think about to make it more inclusive. Things

> live having your space easily accessible, we follow Carpentries rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
like having your space easily accessible, in Oslo follow Carpentries rules
```

easier on the organizers and those people that are coming to speak.

## What is the process of starting a chapter?

*Riva:* Send an email to `chapters@rladies.org`. Mouna will welcome you
and explain process. Chapters are permitted for cities, but not for a
university or company. If you wish to have a thematic meet-up, you could
approach a chapter like R-Ladies Remote and they can help create
thematic meet-ups.

## How would I step up and take over an inactive local chapter?

*Riva:* Same process; email
[chapters\@rladies.org](mailto:chapters@rladies.org), and they would be
happy to begin the process to reactivate your chapter.

## If I don't have a local chapter, is there a way to join a "virtual" chapter? Or are there chapters that regularly meet online?

The R-Ladies Remote chapter serves this purpose. Additionally, many
chapters continue to have virtual events and many welcome participants
outside of their geographic location; they are often announced in the
events channel of the Community Slack channel or on Meet-up.

## Have you considered expanding to include Python?

*Riva:* I am a PyLadies organizer and we often host joint R-Ladies and

> PyLadies events together in Santiago. Cosima also organizes joint events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PyLadies events together in Santiago. Cosima Meyer (Cologne organiser, Germany) also organizes joint events
```

chronologically, but more thematically in terms of discussion versus
operational/procedural questions.

# Discussion questions

## What are the main benefits of R-Ladies?

*Angela:* Improving my data science skills in a community that was
really supportive, which then quickly cascaded into talking to people in
different sectors doing different things that you didn't yet know.
Angela and Ola are stepping down as R-Ladies Chicago organizers, and
would be amazing to give those benefits to someone else to make
connections and build their careers.

*Maria:* A space where you can grow in a supportive environment.
Professionally, I wouldn't have the job that I have right now without
R-Ladies. It has been a hugely positive experience, and it has been
amazing to give back as an organizer.

*Stephanie:* R-Ladies changed my life, I am a super introvert and felt
comfortable here; I have learned a lot and I made really good friends. I
also like that it is an international community. I didn't have
international friends before this and now I have friends in other
R-Ladies in Spanish and they ask me to share my knowledge with them.

> *Riva:* It is a great community to be an introvert in; R-Ladies also

Reviewer 2: I also think we should probably send this to all panel members before publishing to make sure they are okay with their responses.

syndrome. I don't have words to express how it changed my life.

*Mo:* It is changing individual lives, but it is also changing an entire
community. We are at tech conference and there are so many women here -
this of course has to do with the R community that we are in and this R
community is influenced that R-Ladies is breaking stereotypes and making
spaces for all of us. That has been a huge success for us,
as interest for R-Ladies chapters quickly developed  and
became popular very fast. The organization has made space for all of us
in data science fields. It benefits us and the entire community. There
are amazing initiatives going on as well. By establishing the idea of creating more diversity
in gender representation in our community (here: the larger R-community), other aspects of
diversity have become more highlighted also. The efforts on translation of content and even R
it self, R-Ladies, is one of these.
R-Ladies in Latin American is making a huge
impact on a larger scale and all the personal stories are fantastic to
listen to.

## Will R-Ladies ever re-brand to a name that is more inclusive to R users of marginalized genders?

> *Yani:* Yes. As of now our plan is to open a discussion within the

Author: ```suggestion
*Yani:* Yes, it is under consideration. As of now our plan is to open a discussion within the
```

Reviewer 3: I agree, I like the change. When I answered, it was to the consideration of changing the name.  The decision to change or not will come from the discussion.

R-Ladies community where members can comment anonymously and individuals
from the community outside the leadership/global team will join the
discussion. We hope this allows people to feel free to openly share

> their opinion. We plan to have guidelines and rules written ahead of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
their opinion. We have written rules and guidelines to help guide the discussion.
```

> time to help guide the discussion. The results of that discussion will

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The results of that discussion will
```
